doc: chip_tool_guide: style and consistency edits (#25731)
project-chip/connectedhomeip: docs/guides/chip_tool_guide.md

### Step 5: Determine Matter device's discriminator and setup PIN code

Matter uses the following values:

> -   Discriminator - A 12-bit value called used to discern between multiple

Reviewer: "called" what?
```suggestion
-   Discriminator - A 12-bit value used to discern between multiple
```

I: 281 [DL] Device Type: 65535 (0xFFFF)
```

In this printout, the discriminator is `3840 (0xF00)` and the setup PIN code is
`20202021`.

### Step 6: Commission Matter device into an existing IP network

Before communicating with the Matter device, first it must join an existing IP
network.

> Matter devices can use different commissioning channel:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Matter devices can use different commissioning channels:
```

-   Devices that are not yet connected to the target IP network use Bluetooth LE
    as the commissioning channel.
-   Devices that have already joined an IP network only need to use the IP
    protocol for commissioning to the Matter network.

#### Commissioning over Bluetooth LE

In this case, your device can join the existing IP network over Bluetooth LE and
then be commissioned into a Matter network.

> Different scenarios are available for the Thread network and the Wi-Fi network,
> respectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Different scenarios are available for Thread networks and Wi-Fi networks.
```
perhaps?

Author: This is meant to hint to the subsections that follow. Rephrased.

network, but it has not been commissioned to a Matter network yet.

To commission the device, you can use either the setup PIN code or the setup PIN
code and the discriminator, both of which you obtained in the
[step 5](#step-5-determine-matter-devices-discriminator-and-setup-pin-code).
Alternatively, you can also use a QR code payload.

##### Commissioning with setup PIN code

To discover devices and try to pair with the first discovered device using the

> provided setup code, use the following command pattern:

Reviewer: That's not actually what this command does anymore.  It will keep trying devices until one of them succeeds or it runs out of things to try, not just try the first one.  Since this PR is trying to not change semantics, maybe a followup issue?

Author: Will fix in a separate PR.

##### Commissioning with long discriminator

To discover devices with a long discriminator and try to pair with the first

> discovered one using the provided setup code, use the following command pattern:

Reviewer: Again, nowadays this tries all matching things. Again, followup?

Author: Will fix in a separate PR.

Reviewer: Yep, sounds good. Just drop a link to the issue tracking it here and resolve the conversation.

Matter devices log the QR code payload and manual pairing code when they boot.

To discover devices based on the given QR code payload or manual pairing code

> and try to pair with the first discovered one, use the following command

Reviewer: As above, this tries all the matching things.

#### Forgetting the already-commissioned device

> In case when you need to retest the commissioning steps, the following command
> removes the device with the given node ID from the list of commissioned Matter

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In case commissioning needs to be retested, the following command
removes the device with the given node ID from the list of commissioned Matter
```

commissioned to the network. You can now test the device by interacting with
Data Model clusters.

#### Example: Matter Lighting Application Example

In case of the Matter Lighting Application Example we referenced in step 1, the
application implements the On/Off and Level Control clusters. This means that
you can test it by toggling the bulb (using the `onoff` cluster commands) or by
manipulating its brightness (using the `levelcontrol` cluster commands):

> -   Use the following command pattern to toggle the LED state:

Reviewer 2: Minor: we should not assume that onoff cluster state will be corresponding to some LED state on the board in all platforms. Maybe we could rephrase it in a following way?
```suggestion
-   Use the following command pattern to toggle the OnOff attribute state (e.g. visualized by the LED state):
```

    ```
    $ ./chip-tool onoff toggle <node_id> <endpoint_id>
    ```

    In this command:

    -   _<node_id\>_ is the user-defined ID of the commissioned node.
    -   _<endpoint_id\>_ is the ID of the endpoint with OnOff cluster
        implemented.

> -   Use the following command pattern to change the brightness of the LED:

Reviewer 2: Similar comment to the above.
```suggestion
-   Use the following command pattern to change the value of the CurrentLevel attribute (e.g. visualized by the LED brightness):
```

This section contains a general list of various CHIP Tool commands and options,
not limited to commissioning procedure and cluster interaction.

### Interactive mode versus single-command mode

The CHIP Tool can run in one of the following modes:

-   Single-command mode (default) - In this mode, the CHIP Tool will exit with a
    timeout error if any single command does not complete within a certain

>     timeout period.

Reviewer 2: Maybe it's out of this PR scope, but it would be beneficial to mention here that single-command mode results in a fact that CHIP Tool establishes CASE session over and over again with every command sent. While using the interactive mode the CHIP Tool establishes CASE session with a device on the first command and then it doesn't do that for the following commands.

Author: I will fix in a separate PR.

This section contains a general list of various CHIP Tool commands and options,
not limited to commissioning procedure and cluster interaction.

### Interactive mode versus single-command mode

The CHIP Tool can run in one of the following modes:

-   Single-command mode (default) - In this mode, the CHIP Tool will exit with a
    timeout error if any single command does not complete within a certain
    timeout period.

    The timeout error will look similar to the following one:

    ```
    [1650992689511] [32397:1415601] CHIP: [TOO] Run command failure: ../../../examples/chip-tool/commands/common/CHIPCommand.cpp:392: CHIP Error 0x00000032: Timeout
    ```

-   Interactive mode - In this mode, there is no timeout and multiple commands

>     can be issued.

Reviewer: This is not accurate.  In interactive mode there is still a per-command timeout, and a command that does not complete within the timeout will be terminated with an error.  But that will not terminate chip-tool itself and will not terminate async things that previous commands have started.

Author: Rephrased.

#### Modifying timeout duration in single-command mode

This timeout can be modified for any command execution by supplying the optional
`--timeout` parameter, which takes a value in seconds, with the maximum being
65535 seconds.

**Example of command:**

```
$ ./chip-tool otasoftwareupdaterequestor subscribe-event state-transition 5 10 0x1234567890 0 --timeout 65535
```

#### Starting the interactive mode

For commands such as event subscriptions that need to run for an extended period

> of time, the CHIP Tool can be started in the interactive mode first before

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of time, the CHIP Tool can be started in interactive mode first before
```

##### Using message tracing

> Message tracing allows to capture CHIP Tool secure messages that can be used for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Message tracing allows capturing CHIP Tool secure messages that can be used for
```

The CHIP Tool allows to run a set of tests, already compiled in the tool,
against a paired Matter device.

-   To get the list of available tests, run the following command:

    ```
    $ ./chip-tool tests
    ```

-   To execute a particular test against the paired device, use the following
    command pattern:

    ```
    $ ./chip-tool tests <test_name>
    ```

    In this command:

    -   _<test_name\>_ is the name of the particular test.

See the [Examples](#running-testclusters-test) section for an example of how to

> run a test from the test suit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
run a test from the test suite.
```

-   _<endpoint_id\>_ is the ID of the endpoint on which the `binding` cluster is
    implemented.

##### Running `TestClusters` test

Complete the following steps to
[run one test from the test suite](#running-a-test-suite-against-a-paired-peer-device):

1. Clean the initialization of state using the following command:
    ```
    rm -fr /tmp/chip_*
    ```
1. In a shell window, start the DUT device:
    ```
    ./out/debug/standalone/chip-all-clusters-app
    ```
1. In a second shell window, pair the DUT with the CHIP Tool:
    ```

>     ./out/debug/standalone/chip-tool pairing onnetwork 333221 20202021

Reviewer: This is actually fairly error-prone and we should not steer people toward this.  People should pair using the device's onboarding payload.

Author: I moved this part from the old line 651. Not really my call to remove this, so should this be tracked as a separate issue?

Reviewer: Ah, I had missed this just being moved.  In that case, yes, separate issue.  Just drop the link to the issue in this conversation and resolve the conversation, please.

Author: Reported issue: https://github.com/project-chip/connectedhomeip/issues/25780

    ```
1. Run the test with the following command:
    ```
    ./out/debug/standalone/chip-tool tests TestCluster --nodeId 333221
    ```

Read the [CHIP Test Suits](../../src/app/tests/suites/README.md) page for more
information about how the test suite is structured.

### Multi-admin scenario

Multi-admin feature allows you to join Matter device to several Matter fabrics

> and administer it by several different Matter administrators.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and have several different Matter administrators administer it.
```

$ ./chip-tool pairing open-commissioning-window 1 1 300 1000 2365
```

> > **Note:** manual pairing code or QR code payload printed in the command

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Write down the manual pairing code or QR code payload printed in the command
```

As in, this is not a "Note".  This is an instruction for a step you need to take to make this whole thing work.

Author: Will rephrase.

[1663675289.149445][56387:56392] CHIP:CTL: SetupQRCode: [MT:4CT91AFN00YHEE7E300]
```

> ##### Option B: Commissioning to a new fabric

Reviewer: I don't understand the "Option A"/"Option B" thing.  These are not options you choose between.  These are steps, that need to be done in order.

Author: Will rephrase. @kkasperczyk-no , can you have a look at the updated text?

[1663675289.149445][56387:56392] CHIP:CTL: SetupQRCode: [MT:4CT91AFN00YHEE7E300]
```

#### Step 4: Commission the Matter device to a new fabric

Complete the following steps:

1. Open another instance of the CHIP Tool.

> 1. In the new instance of the CHIP Tool, commission the Matter device to a new

Reviewer 2: There is a mistake in enumerating: 1->2.

Author: This is Markdown formatting for steps that renders them with correct order when rendering the rich diff or preview.
